About a third of Instagram users make
purchases on Instagram. And I know what
you guys are thinking. You're thinking,
"Well, that can't be true. I've never
shopped on Instagram. No one really
shops on Instagram." And I know because
I thought this, too. Until I realized
after the purchase, I was like, "Wait,
did I just shop on Instagram? Was I just
swayed by this Instagram post?" Might
have happened to you without even
noticing it. And so my point is is that
it is so easy to shop on Instagram that
with [music] a mere few taps of a
button, consumers are making purchases
and business owners are raking in that
cash. And selling on Instagram is so
beginner friendly, guys. It literally
takes [music] 15 minutes to set up. So
here, let's do this. If I can't set up
my Instagram [music] store within 15
minutes, I will not title this video how
to set up an Instagram shop in 15
minutes or less. Won't do it. But the
challenge is, can I set it up quickly,
but also in a way that makes people want
to spend their hard-earned cash? And
that's the secret sauce. And so, by the
end of this video, if you follow these
six steps, which I will blur out here
for dramatic effect, you will have a
professional-grade, fully functional
store that is ready to be launched. All
you need is your phone, an Instagram
account, and a Shopify store. Who's with
me? Let's do it.
Oh, wait. One thing. [music] You know
those other videos that show you how to
make an Instagram shop here on YouTube?
Those videos are great, but we have more
fun on this channel. So, if you're not
already subscribed to this channel, I
hope you consider subscribing. But,
okay, without further ado, woo, let's
get into it. Here's what you'll need
before starting. Okay, you're going to
need a business account or a creator
account. If you don't have this type of
account or not sure what that is, don't
worry. I'll show you in a minute. You're
going to need an active Shopify store
with products. If you don't yet have a
Shopify store, sign up for a free trial
account right over here. And I also
added a special link for you guys in the
description box down below. [music]
And lastly, you will need to have an
Instagram account that is in good
standing. Instagram reviews your account
for eligibility. So, you're going to
need an established, authentic presence
with engaged followers [music] to
actually be approved for shopping
features. Let me just walk you through
how to switch your IG profile to [music]
a professional account. If you're not
sure what kind of account you have, by
default, you will have a personal
account. Now, the difference between a
pro account and a personal account is a
pro account unlocks [music] the selling
tools that you are going to need. Here's
a step-by-step guide on how to switch
your account from a personal account to
a professional account. And by the way,
guys, I just want to preface this.
Instagram updates their interface
regularly. So, if these exact menu
options aren't visible, just look for
similar terms. Use your best judgment.
And I'm going to need a timer because I
promised you guys 15 minutes and you're
going to get it. [music] Ready? Go.
Okay. Open Instagram and go to your
profile.
Tap the three horizontal lines in the
top right hand corner of your profile.
This will open the menu.
Scroll down to the four [music]
professional section and tap on account
types and tools.
Then tap on switch to professional
account. [music]
You'll be shown a few screens explaining
the benefits of a professional account.
So tap [music] continue or next through
these screens and then select the
category that best describes your
profile. Like it could be public figure,
artist, product, service, etc. You can
actually use the search bar to find a
more specific category if you'd like.
And then after choosing your category,
you'll be prompted to select either
creator or business. Most of you will
probably choose business if you're a
retailer, right? But choose the account
type that's right for you and then tap
next. Okay, amazing. You now have
successfully changed your Instagram
profile to a creator or business
account. Stop the timer. Now that you
have the right account type, let's link
our Insta to our Facebook. The Facebook
connection acts as the bridge that
allows your Shopify products to show up
on Instagram. not possible without the
connection unfort. So I know it's a
little bit of an extra step but let's do
this together. So let's start that timer
and get into it. To connect your
Instagram to your Facebook, first you're
going to go to your [music] Instagram
profile. Then you are going to tap the
three horizontal lines in the top right
hand corner to open that menu. [music]
Then tap the accounts center. And then
under accounts and profiles, tap on add
accounts.
Follow the prompts to connect your
Facebook [music] account. Once you've
connected your personal Facebook
account, you're going to be able to
select the specific [music] Facebook
business page you want to link. It
starts getting a little meta, no pun
intended, if you don't have a Facebook
business page, because to have an
Instagram shop, you need a Facebook
[music] business page. But to get a
Facebook business page, you need a
personal account. Dizzy just thinking
about it. If you don't have a Facebook
business page, check out this next video
here. But yeah, can we get a time check?
Okay, so we still have some time. That's
good. The next step is to link our IG to
our Shopify store. By doing this, you
can transform your Instagram profile
into a storefront. This [music] is where
all the magic comes together. Okay,
guys. And by the way, Instagram used to
let you check out directly, but they no
longer allow customers to check out on
the platform. So, when customers tap
buy, they'll need to be redirected to
the Shopify store to complete the
purchase. [music] And this actually
makes the Shopify integration and having
an amazing e-commerce store presence
even more important than ever. So, let's
talk about the Shopify integration
because it's very handy. Having it means
that instead of having to manually
upload product photos and prices to both
platforms, [music] the data is pulled
automatically from your Shopify store.
So, everything is the same across both
sites. So, ultimately, you save time and
have less errors. If you don't have a
Shopify store, some would argue that
you've watched way too [music] much of
this video by this point and others
would say that this is a great
opportunity to get a Shopify store. And
frankly, I think both would be right
because Shopify is the best e-commerce
platform in my humble opinion. And I'm
not just saying that because this is a
Shopify powered channel, but because I
myself, Michelle Bal, I I actually think
that I actually don't think that I would
be down to recommend another e-commerce
platform [music] to my friends and
family. For one, it automatically syncs
your entire product catalog, so you
never have to do manual data entry. It
keeps your Instagram shop perpetually up
todate. And secondly, it centralizes all
your sales, inventory, and customer
management into one unified dashboard,
so everything is in one place in [music]
an easy to use system. I mentioned at
the beginning of the video that there is
a free trial available, I think, but I
feel like this is a fine time to tell
you again. [music] Just click in the
description box below to get that free
trial. Now, for all of you that came to
class prepared with your Shopify
subscription already in tow, let's
connect your Instagram account to your
Shopify store. The key is to link your
Insta, Meta, and Shopify all together so
your Shopify product catalog can sync
and enable Instagram's shopping
features. This is the last linking step,
so let's take it home with a bang. Goes
without saying, but you'll need to have
created a Shopify store with products
ready to sell. Next, you'll need to
install the Facebook and Instagram sales
channel on Shopify. So, from your
Shopify admin, go to the settings, apps,
and sales channels. Click Shopify app
store and search for Facebook and
Instagram, just like this. And then
click add sales channel or add app if
that's how it's showing up. And then
follow the on-creen prompts to connect
your Shopify store to your Facebook
account. [music] You'll be asked to
select the Facebook business page that
you want to use as well here. Once the
app is installed, you'll be guided
through the setup process to sync your
product catalog. Shopify will
automatically create a product catalog
in your Facebook commerce manager. This
can take some time depending on the
number of products you have, but also
you can set which products you want to
be available on the sales channel in
case say like you have some products
that you don't want to be available on
your Instagram shop. After your product
catalog is synced, you're not quite
quite done. You'll still need to enable
the shopping features on Instagram.
[music] So on the Instagram app, go to
your profile, tap business tools and
controls, and then set up Instagram
shopping. Follow the prompts to connect
your Facebook catalog to your Instagram
profile. And then your account will then
be reviewed by Meta to ensure that it
complies with their commerce policies.
This can take a few days, but it's
usually a little bit faster than that.
Once you're approved, you will be able
to tag products in your posts and
stories, and a view shop button will
appear on your Instagram profile. I know
right now we're talking about Instagram
shopping, but has Instagram ever
introduced to you something that is just
so great? [music]
The other week I saw a post about doing
community emergency response training.
And I'm doing this with the LA Fire
Department. And now I'm in a 7-week
course that teaches civilians how to
respond to disasters. And it's been so
cool so far. So tell me down below what
is one amazing thing that Instagram has
led you to. Is my timer still on for
maximum exposure and shoppability? Don't
stop there. Create posts, stories, and
reels featuring your products. If you
actually tag your products in your
content, people will be able to tap the
photo, see what products are featured,
and actually go ahead and buy them. For
just standard feed posts, when you're
creating a post, as you do, find the tag
products option. on the final screen
before you post. You will see a few
options below the write a caption field.
So tap tag [music] products and then tap
on a specific area of your image or your
video where the product is visible. And
now you'll see a search bar appear. So
begin typing the name of your product
you want to tag. Your products from the
synced catalog will appear. See all your
hard work is paying off. [music] Tap on
the product from the list and the
product tag will appear on your image.
You can drag it to a new location if you
do need to. So now this is what the
journey will look like to an end
consumer. See? Tap. Oh, I like I want to
buy. Now over to the product page and
checkout page. As a Shopify store owner,
you're going to get a little ding ding
ding. You made a sale. With stories, use
a specific sticker to enable product
tagging. I'm here about to post to my
story. See? And then in the sticker
tray, tap the sticker icon just like
this.
Search for and select the product that
you want to feature. Then place the
sticker. You can move it, resize it,
rotate it, whatever you want. And then
you can also tap the sticker to change
the style just like this. Last way you
can tag your products is via Instagram
reel. Tagging products in a reel is
similar to a standard post, but the tag
appears differently to the viewer.
As you have your reel ready to post,
find [music] the tag products option.
This is going to be on the final editing
screen before you share. See, like this
here. So, select your product or
multiple products if you do have
multiple. And then the tag products will
be visible to viewers [music] when they
tap the view products button on your
reel. So that's how it's going to show
up to an end consumer. I'm not going to
lie, between the teaching and the
talking and the tutorial [music] of it
all, I definitely lost track of the
time. But I am reserving the right to
title this video 15 minutes because I'm
not bummed about how quick this took
here. So give this video a big thumbs up
if you love a very real, a very unstage
challenge like we've done today. The
thing that I promised you was tips on
setting up an Instagram shop that was
more than just mediocre. And now that
you guys know the logistics of how to
get everything linked and set up, I
think you guys are ready for the big
leagues. Creating a successful Instagram
shop that converts browsers into buyers
goes beyond simply just tagging [music]
products. It requires a strategic and
engaging approach. So, here are key tips
to make [music] your shop stand out and
drive sales. Most importantly, create
highquality, authentic content. So,
instead of just showing a static product
shot, showcase your products in action.
Use lifestyle photos and videos,
especially reals that show how the
product can be [music] used and how it
will benefit the customer. A bikini
brand, for instance, should show an
influencer [music] wearing the piece on
a dock, for example. Now, my second word
of advice is to maintain a cohesive
vibe. Your Instagram feed should feel
like a curated [music]
storefront. Use a consistent color
palette, lighting, and style to create
visually appealing experiences that
reflect your brand identity. For many
brands, authenticity is the vibe. So,
with shots taken on an iPhone UGC style,
that's very common. But for other
brands, the visual aesthetic relies
heavily on the campaign's artistic
direction. I think as long as you do
have a clear vision, a clear aesthetic,
[music]
that should be the forefront of your
strategy.
The next tip is tag everything. Posts,
stories, reels. This makes it so easy
for potential customers to just tap and
shop on the spot, shortening the buying
journey. I cannot tell you how many
times I've been frustrated that I cannot
find [music] more info on a product
because it hasn't been tagged. So, don't
let that be you. And next, build
consistency between your IG and your
online store. So, let's say one of your
followers loves your vibe on Instagram,
[music] right? They're jazzed about your
products, but then they reach your
Shopify store and it's like, wait, what
happened to the vibe? The most common
occurrence I see of this is great UGC
content on Instagram and then Shopify
stores using product images they got
directly from their manufacturer. It
feels kind of like disingenuous, kind of
catfishy, you know what I mean? So, on
your product pages, you need to use a
mix of UGC and clean, professionally
taken product [music] photos to showcase
your lifestyle and your professionalism
allin one. All this is good and well,
but I don't live laugh love the idea of
just doing all this work and then just
[music] hoping for the best. So, make
sure that you're looking at your
analytics to see what content is
performing best in regard to engagement
and sales and then continue to replicate
[music]
what's already working. The key metric
to monitor within Instagram insights for
product shopping are firstly product
page views. This metric tracks the
number of times people have tapped on a
product tag to view the product detail
page within Instagram. [music] It's a
key indicator of interest and shows
which products are grabbing your
audience's attention. Track product
clicks too. This measures the number of
clicks on the view [music] on website or
check out on Instagram buttons from the
product page. This is going to be the
ultimate conversion metric on
Instagram's side [music] showing how
many people are taking the final step
towards purchasing. For key metrics on
specific posts, reels, or stories,
navigate to the content and tap view
insights below the content.
For your overall account insights, go to
your profile and then tap on the
professional dashboard button at the top
of the profile. Under the track your
performance section, tap see all
insights. And then here you can filter
your content by products to see which
shoppable posts, reels, or stories
performed best. With Shopify, you get
even more info. [music]
Once Instagram users click through to
your Shopify store, Shopify's analytics
take over to provide crucial e-commerce
metrics. These insights are essential
for understanding the actual business
impact of your Instagram efforts, moving
beyond just likes and clicks. Sales and
conversion metrics is where you see the
direct financial results of your
Instagram strategy. So, track conversion
rate. This is one of the most important
metrics. [music] It measures the
percentage of sessions from Instagram
that resulted in a purchase. So a high
conversion rate indicates that the
people coming from Instagram [music]
are highly qualified buyers who are
ready to purchase. If your conversion
[music] rate is low, it might suggest a
mismatch between your Instagram content
and your product pages. Also track total
sales. This tracks the total revenue
generated from customers who came from
Instagram. By comparing this to other
channels, you can determine how
profitable Instagram is as a sales
[music] channel. Nice guys, you made it
to the end of the video. Was that clear?
Let me know if you guys have any
questions with any of these steps, okay?
I want to make sure that you guys are
set up for success. I left the Shopify
link in the description box for that
free trial. So, utilize that as you set
up your Instagram store. That should
give you a few free days. Subscribe, hit
the notification bell. The next video
that you're going to want to watch is
how to advertise on Instagram. Having
your shoppable products is key, but as
we all know, Instagram is paytoplay. So,
you'll need to advertise your products
to reach maximum [music] exposure. Head
over there, and I will see you guys in
the next one.